---
layout: post
title: "Call for Papers: \"Constructing Masculinities?\""
author: Dr Aoileann Ní Éigeartaigh
tag : call for papers
---

The Department of Humanities, in conjunction with The Humanities Research Group and SOCIETY Research Group, is pleased to announce a symposium on the topic of “Constructing Masculinities?”, on Friday 12th April 2019. 

This symposium aims to facilitate an interdisciplinary conversation about contemporary constructions of masculinity, assessing both the continuation of traditional hegemonic models and the challenges to this by newer, more flexible and transformative gender identities. Research indicates the possible marginalization of many young people, particularly socially disadvantaged young men. Changes in employment contexts appear to have had a disproportionate impact on this group’s prospects for social mobility. In addition, changing social norms around gender relations, in particular sexuality and family formations, appear to have destabilized long-standing assumptions about masculine identities and behaviours. The role played by social media sites in articulating often unrealistic expectations about men’s bodies and sexual practices is linked by many experts to deteriorating mental and physical health. On the other hand, the aggressive, entitled behaviour and sexist attitudes promoted by sports stars and other influential role models perpetuate a brand of hypermasculinity that caricatures traditional male identities and role.

We welcome abstracts (500 words) addressing any aspect of the construction of masculinity, its challenges and transformations.

Abstracts as well as a short biographical note should be emailed to [aoileann.nieigeartaigh@dkit.ie](mailto:aoileann.nieigeartaigh@dkit.ie) and [kevin.howard@dkit.ie](mailto:kevin.howard@dkit.ie) by Friday 1st March 2019.
