---
layout: post
title: "Call for Papers: \"Drugs, Addictions and the Arts\""
author: Dr Aoileann Ní Éigeartaigh
category : call for papers
---

**CANCELLED DUE TO LOCKDOWN... Apologies to all who submitted proposals. We hope to revisit this theme at a later date**

Call for Papers: “Drugs, Addictions and the Arts”


The Department of Humanities, in conjunction with The Humanities Research Group, is pleased to announce a symposium on the topic of “Drugs, Addictions and the Arts”, on Friday 24th April, 2020. 

This symposium welcomes contributions from across the arts and social sciences exploring the intersections between the arts and mind-altering substances. For example, on the one hand, writers and artists across time have claimed that using drugs helps transcend perceptual limitations, enhancing creativity and originality. Language, imagery and aesthetic techniques, it has been claimed, have been radically expanded, hallucinatory revelations translated into original and enduring works of art. On the other hand, the usually illicit, transgressive, very often illegal, status of mind-altering substances has provided fertile ground for artistic exploration of society and politics (e.g., Hogarth to The Wire). No modern state adopts a laissez-faire attitude towards the consumption of drugs. The often catastrophic individual and social consequences of consumption underpin debates about artistic representation. Artists cannot escape the moral ambiguities which result from on the one hand celebrating drugs as portals to creativity or, on the other, as the basis for artistic works. At the same time, the arts and art therapies can play a significant role in addressing some of the negative consequences of drug taking. Indeed, as a way of expressing emotion, as an alternative to potentially destructive behaviours and overcoming barriers to recovery the arts is increasingly deployed as positive intervention. The relationship therefore between drugs, addictions and the arts is complex, multifaceted, evolving and here to stay.

We welcome abstracts (500 words) addressing any aspect of the intersections between drugs, society and the arts. Symposium papers should be 15 minutes in length. Selected proceedings will be published in the departmental journal.

Abstracts as well as a short biographical note should be emailed to aoileann.nieigeartaigh@dkit and kevin.howard@dkit.ie by Friday 20th March 2020.



